hey everyone welcome to this video about
how to take on the toastmaster role at a
toastmasters meeting before we get to
that if this is your first time landing
on one of my videos please consider
subscribing to my channel it would mean
so much i am passionate about not only
toastmasters but impactful communication
and i want you to be a more effective
and impactful communicator therefore my
video content is aimed at doing just
that so if you subscribed you'll get
access to all of my videos which are
going to give you great tips and tools
to leverage on your path to becoming a
powerful communicator so back to the
reason that you landed on this video
perhaps you are taking on the actual
toastmaster role at a toastmasters
meeting and you don't know what you
signed up for and you're panicking and
you're about to have your meeting and
now you're doing your youtube research
to prepare don't worry you came to the
right spot but i will say that being the
toastmaster is one of the most
challenging roles at least in my opinion
at a toastmasters meeting so first off
good for you for signing up for that
role if you haven't done that yet but
you're thinking about it i would really
encourage you to do it because
toastmasters is all about creating not
only great communicators but great
leaders and the toastmaster role
is very much a leadership role and it's
something that
is a great skill to have to be able to
chair a meeting to pass off the podium
to other individuals to do the
preparation before the meeting these
things are important skills and are
going to benefit you in general life i
promise the first thing that is required
of a toastmaster is preparation so often
whoever has signed up for the
toastmaster role will be asked or
required to send out an email or however
you communicate with your club members
prior so in the week leading up to the
meeting to articulate a first a few
things first off what is the theme of
the meeting so great toastmasters
meetings have great themes sometimes
they're having to do with the time of
year so this video is probably going to
be posted in october maybe halloween
could be a theme or maybe fall
or seasons or it could be anything that
you want it could be nostalgic movies
favorite 90s bands feel free to get as
creative as you want with this because
it's totally up to you what the theme of
your meeting is going to be by sending
that information out to club members
they can start to think whatever role
they're in maybe they're the table
topics master now they know what types
of questions they should be asking
because they could revolve around the
theme or perhaps somebody has signed up
for the humorist role now they're
thinking in their head do i have a funny
story regarding halloween or whatever
the theme is and that's very helpful to
the others who are going to be
participating
in agenda roles at the meeting the
second thing you'll want to do in
advance leading up to the meeting is
communicate with people who have signed
up for speaker roles and get a bit of
information about what they're going to
be talking about you'll want to know
what path they're on through the
pathways program what the title of their
speech is and perhaps a brief
introduction and a little bit of
information about the speaker this
information will come in handy to you
because when you're introducing the
first speaker or the second speaker it's
going to sound so smooth you'll know
exactly what they're working on give the
context for the rest of the audience so
they know what type of speech is going
to be coming that way the speaker
doesn't have to do that they are simply
stepping up to the stage and performing
their speech or giving their speech and
they don't have to explain what it is
that they're talking about take the time
to reach out to those speakers
beforehand and make sure that there are
evaluators matched up for each of those
speakers one thing i like to do for our
toastmasters meetings that are in person
is print off agendas of the meeting i
think that is the role of a toastmaster
therefore show up early that's my other
tip show up early to the meeting that
you are a toastmaster of
and set out agendas in front of
everywhere people will be sitting so
that they have that right beside
themselves if you're doing it virtually
no problem still show up to the zoom
meeting early and have a digital version
of the agenda perhaps it's a link or an
attachment that you add in the chat or
maybe you share your screen for part of
it that shows what the agenda is
but whether it's virtual or in person it
is your responsibility to ensure that
everyone knows what the agenda is for
that meeting part of the other benefit
of showing up early is that you can
track
with the agenda who is there to fulfill
rules because sometimes this situation
will come up where somebody has signed
up for a role and then last minute
they send a five minute before the
meeting start email saying that some
crazy thing has come up and they cannot
make it and they are so sorry
and it's unfortunate but these things
happen they happen almost every single
meeting something comes up somebody's no
longer
able to do their speech or their role
and you as the toastmaster have to
roll with it you have to fill that
agenda you have to assign people to do
different things therefore it's
a clever idea to identify members of the
club who maybe haven't signed up for a
role and when you show up early and you
see those club members come in whether
it's virtual or in person this works
both ways you can ask those individuals
hey i see that there's still a spot open
for an aw counter do you mind taking on
that role or it looks like
sarah is running a few minutes late if
she doesn't get here are you able to
take her role as evaluator for jimmy's
speech by having those backup plans you
are going to be prepared and then not
panicking because once you're up and
you're speaking you don't want to have
to worry about the logistics of the
meeting you want to make sure that the
agenda is filled and you have speakers
for each different area at the beginning
of your toastmaster section when you
introduce yourself you start the meeting
just after the toast usually it depends
on the club agenda every club is a
little bit different i do recognize that
but you want to give some context to the
theme and talk about why you picked that
theme and set the tone for what the
attendees can expect of that meeting one
mistake i've seen pretty commonly is
people take too much time in this area
talking about the theme and getting
bogged down and telling a long story and
then that pushes the timing for the rest
of the agenda that you're scrambling to
get everything done be concise when you
are delivering that opening and remind
people to try to use the theme
throughout the meeting when they are
speaking one of the most powerful tools
you can have as a toastmaster is
transitions to be able to transition
smoothly from role to role
is the most enjoyable experience and
makes for the best meetings so as an
example of transitions pretend you have
a humorist and then the next role up is
the grammarian within our club i believe
that is the the role order for part of
the agenda so the humorist or the joke
master depending on what your club calls
it delivers his or her speech let's
pretend that individual used some really
strong vocabulary as toastmaster that's
your opportunity to thank that
individual for taking on the role and
then maybe pointing out a couple of the
words that they used which you were
really impressed by
and then transitioning speaking of great
use of the english language i'd like to
invite up our grammarian to talk a
little bit more about how we can use
great use of language throughout this
meeting those subtle transitions from
point to point make a world of
difference if you were an attendee or in
the audience or one of the other members
who is participating in the meeting it
will just feel so natural and the flow
of the meeting will be incredibly smooth
this is an advanced tip and trick so if
it's your first time being toastmaster
and you're hoping to just get through it
don't
bog yourself down worrying too much
about transitions but if you are an
elite toastmaster that is something that
you should try to implement to make your
role even stronger next time as i
mentioned before every club's agenda is
a little bit different so if you're not
overly familiar with your club's agenda
make sure you familiarize yourself with
it perhaps reach out to your club
president or the vp of education
and just get a grasp on how the
structure should be if you have any
questions don't be afraid to ask if
there are no bad questions in
toastmasters a couple final things to
keep in mind of one of the most
important things for the toastmaster to
do is to ensure the meeting is going on
time
naturally you're going to have some
speakers who speak for too long and
speakers who don't speak long enough and
that's okay as long as the balance of
the meeting eventually arrives at the
meeting end time the goal of your
meeting as a toastmaster should be to
start on time and to end on time and in
between make the meeting as good as
possible you may have to coach different
people if your meeting is running late
the table topics master perhaps they're
used to asking three different people
questions maybe you have to
make an announcement and say hey for
this role we're only going to have time
for one to get us back on track but
please invite up the table topics master
and clap as they come up something along
those lines to ensure again you can't
let the meeting go way late you have to
make sure that it is on time that is
incredibly important and it's a real
life application all of us have meetings
or work functions or whether it's a
wedding or whatever it is it's important
that these events stay on time in real
life and it's important that they stay
on time at toastmasters meetings as well
the last tip i'll give you for being a
great toastmaster is to always hand off
that podium i understand this video is
coming out kind of during
the midst of covid 19 and that different
areas are different a lot of your
meetings aren't happening in person
right now but for the most part
pre-covet that would usually mean a
handshake to each speaker who comes up
but regardless of whether you're doing
that or not don't leave the stage until
the other person has come up and you've
done some form of greeting to
acknowledge them they say don't leave
the stage cold don't leave the podium
cold you always want to have somebody
who is there as a speaker it's important
to remember after you're finished your
speech look to the toastmaster and wait
for him or her to come up before you
depart but as toastmaster it's important
that you're keeping that in mind as well
as for virtual or zoom meetings that's
probably not as relevant of a fact but
it's something to keep in mind once you
get back to in-person toastmasters
meetings final final tip i will give you
for being the toastmaster because again
it is the toughest role it is an
overwhelming role at times but don't let
that
spur of the moment
inevitability about being a toastmaster
fluster you or get you frustrated the
meeting is all about how you react and
how you take control of it and if you
are relaxed if you are confident so will
the other toastmasters members if you
are frazzled and worried and concerned
they're going to see that they're going
to feel stressed out as well
so it's key that you take that
leadership position and set the tone for
the meeting expect the unexpected that
is a guaranteed with taking on this role
but you're going to do great just own it
prepare for it and i'm excited to hear
about everyone who watches this video
and then takes on the role for the first
time if you do that leave me a comment
i've already had some great comments in
previous videos of people taking on
roles for the first time and it honestly
makes my day to read that so please do
that leave a comment if you take on the
role for the first time or if any of
these tips were beneficial for you thank
you so much for watching this video
consider subscribing to my channel and i
hope all of you have an amazing day